README.rst, before:

|Build Status| |Coverage Status| |Code Health| |PyPI Version|

Sealed Mock
===========

Whitelist the attributes/methods of your mocks instead of just letting
it create new mock objects.

SealedMock allows specify when you are done defining the mock, ensuring
that any unexpected call to the mock is cached.

Sample:

.. code:: python

    import sealedmock
    m = sealedmock.SealedMock()
    m.method1.return_value.attr1.method2.return_value = 1
    m.sealed = True
    m.method1().attr1.method2()
    # 1
    m.method1().attr2
    # Exception: SealedMockAttributeAccess: mock.method1().attr2

Install
=======

``pip install sealedmock``

Usage
=====

Given you have a file like:

.. code:: python

    import urllib2

    class SampleCodeClass(object):
        """This is sample code"""
        def calling_urlopen(self):
            return urllib2.urlopen("http://chooserandom.com")

        def calling_splithost(self):
            return urllib2.splithost("//host:port/path")

You can write a test like:

.. code:: python

    from sealedmock import patch
    @patch("tests.sample_code.urllib2")
    def test_using_decorator(mock):
            sample = sample_code.SampleCodeClass()
            mock.urlopen.return_value = 2

            mock.sealed = True  # No new attributes can be declared

            # calling urlopen succeeds as mock.urlopen has been defined
            assert sample.calling_urlopen()

            # This will fail as mock.splithost has not been defined
            sample.calling_splithost()

If you use an common Mock the second part will pass as it will create a
mock for you and return it. With SealedMock you can choose when to stop
that behaviour.

This is recursive so you can write:

.. code:: python

    @patch("sample_code.secret")
    def test_recursive(mock):
            sample = sample_code.SampleCodeClass()
            mock.secret.call1.call2.call3.return_value = 1
            mock.sealed = True  # No new attributes can be declared

            # If secret is not used as specified above it will fail
            # ex: if do_stuff also calls secret.call1.call9
            sample.do_stuff()

It also prevents typos on tests if used like this:

.. code:: python

    @patch("sample_code.secret")
    def test_recursive(mock):
            sample = sample_code.SampleCodeClass()

            sample.do_stuff()

            mock.sealed = True
            mock.asert_called_with(1)
            # Note the typo in asert (should be assert)
            # Sealed mock will rise, normal mock won't

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/mariocj89/sealedmock.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/mariocj89/sealedmock
.. |Coverage Status| image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/mariocj89/sealedmock/badge.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://coveralls.io/github/mariocj89/sealedmock?branch=master
.. |Code Health| image:: https://landscape.io/github/mariocj89/sealedmock/master/landscape.svg?style=flat
   :target: https://landscape.io/github/mariocj89/sealedmock/master
.. |PyPI Version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/sealedmock.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/sealedmock/

Commit message:

Mirror the API that has been accepted in Python

README.rst, after:

|Build Status| |Coverage Status| |Code Health| |PyPI Version|

Sealed Mock
===========

Whitelist the attributes/methods of your mocks instead of just letting
it create new mock objects.

`sealedmock` allows to specify when you are done defining the mock, ensuring
that any unexpected call to the mock is cached.

Sample:

.. code:: python

    from unittest.mock import Mock
    from sealedmock import seal
    m = Mock()
    m.method1.return_value.attr1.method2.return_value = 1
    seal(m)  # No new attributes can be declared
    m.method1().attr1.method2()
    # 1
    m.method1().attr2
    # Exception: AttributeError mock.method1().attr2

Big news! This is getting into Python3.7! See [this PR](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/1923/files).

Install
=======

``pip install sealedmock``

Usage
=====

Given you have a file like:

.. code:: python

    import urllib2

    class SampleCodeClass(object):
        """This is sample code"""
        def calling_urlopen(self):
            return urllib2.urlopen("http://chooserandom.com")

        def calling_splithost(self):
            return urllib2.splithost("//host:port/path")

You can write a test like:

.. code:: python

    from unittest.mock import patch
    from sealedmock import seal
    @patch("tests.sample_code.urllib2")
    def test_using_decorator(mock):
            sample = sample_code.SampleCodeClass()
            mock.urlopen.return_value = 2

            seal(mock)  # No new attributes can be declared

            # calling urlopen succeeds as mock.urlopen has been defined
            sample.calling_urlopen()

            # This will fail as mock.splithost has not been defined
            sample.calling_splithost()

If you use an common Mock the second part will pass as it will create a
mock for you and return it. With sealedmock you can choose when to stop
that behaviour.

This is recursive so you can write:

.. code:: python

    @patch("sample_code.secret")
    def test_recursive(mock):
            sample = sample_code.SampleCodeClass()
            mock.secret.call1.call2.call3.return_value = 1
            seal(mock)  # No new attributes can be declared

            # If secret is not used as specified above it will fail
            # ex: if do_stuff also calls secret.call1.call9
            sample.do_stuff()

It also prevents typos on tests if used like this:

.. code:: python

    @patch("sample_code.secret")
    def test_recursive(mock):
            sample = sample_code.SampleCodeClass()

            sample.do_stuff()

            seal(mock)
            mock.asert_called_with(1)
            # Note the typo in asert (should be assert)
            # A sealed mock will rise, normal mock won't

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/mariocj89/sealedmock.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/mariocj89/sealedmock
.. |Coverage Status| image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/mariocj89/sealedmock/badge.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://coveralls.io/github/mariocj89/sealedmock?branch=master
.. |Code Health| image:: https://landscape.io/github/mariocj89/sealedmock/master/landscape.svg?style=flat
   :target: https://landscape.io/github/mariocj89/sealedmock/master
.. |PyPI Version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/sealedmock.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/sealedmock/
